This is the January 2018 edition
of JW Broadcasting.
Welcome, one and all.
As Mark Noumair explained last month,
the Governing Body
has approved the annual meeting
of the Pennsylvania Corporation
to be broadcast each year
as a monthly JW Broadcasting program.
In this way,
more translation teams around the world
will have the resources
to make this program available
to viewers in many more languages.
This annual meeting was indeed special.
It was held on October 7, 2017.
Since it also included the dedication
of many United States branch buildings
and the dedication
of the world headquarters complex,
it was presented from the Bethel auditorium
in Warwick, New York.
Brother Geoffrey Jackson
of the Governing Body was the chairman.
The monthly program you’re about to see
consists of the dedication-related aspects
of the event.
I’m sure you will enjoy the program.
We’re going to start off
by asking you a question.
In fact,
the Governing Body has directed me
to ask the English-speaking brothers
this question: What if?
What if during Brother Smalley’s prayer,
he said,
‘And we pray
for the vindication of your name?’
How would you have reacted?
‘Oh, no!
I feel sorry for Gene.’
Well, it’s true
that in English over the years,
we have tended to be very careful,
haven’t we,
about saying
the sanctification of Jehovah’s name
and the vindication of his sovereignty?
But is it necessarily wrong for us to say
that Jehovah’s name could be vindicated?
Well, back in 1965, the Awake! magazine
answered that yes, it would be wrong.
Then in 1995, The Watchtower made the point
—it reemphasized—
it said no one is questioning Jehovah’s name,
so there’s no need to vindicate that name.
But the more we look at this subject,
the more we see a need
to adjust our understanding,
particularly in English.
So let’s think about the words
associated with this problem.
First of all, “sanctify”
—what does “sanctify” mean?
Well, it means “to make holy,”
or to treat something as holy.
And it’s very appropriate, isn’t it,
that we pray
for the sanctification of Jehovah’s name?
That’s exactly what Jesus told us to do:
“Let your name be sanctified.”
So you can relax.
There’s no change with regard to that.
But what about the word “vindicate”?
Well, “vindicate”
usually indicates exonerating or proving
that someone is correct
in something they’ve done.
Perhaps they’re being criticized,
and then they’re proved
to be true, or correct.
And what about the word “name”?
Does it just refer
to an identification or a label?
Well, that’s usually not
the case in the Bible, is it?
It often times
refers to the reputation of the person,
not just their identifying name or label.
For example,
at Proverbs 22:1, it tells us:
“A good name is to be chosen
rather than great wealth.”
Now in that case,
“name” is referring to the reputation
of the person.
So let’s think for a few minutes.
What really has Satan criticized
down through time?
Well, first of all,
he has criticized Jehovah’s reputation
—his name.
And secondly, he has criticized
the rightfulness of Jehovah’s sovereignty or,
in other words, his way of ruling.
So, really, both of these things,
Jehovah’s reputation and his way of ruling,
need to be vindicated.
Satan has tried to besmirch
the holy name of Jehovah in many ways.
One way is by painting him
as a vengeful, harsh God.
Or in the churches of Christendom,
believing that he is a God
that burns people in a fiery hell.
Or in the Scriptures,
we see him implying that Jehovah is a liar
who holds back
good things from his creatures.
Well, in that case, we can see
that Jehovah’s name, or reputation,
does need to be exonerated or,
in other words, vindicated.
So in summary,
Jehovah’s sovereignty
certainly needs to be vindicated
as we’ve always said,
but also his name as a loving God
—his reputation—
needs to be vindicated.
So it’s not wrong for us to say
that these actions
of vindicating Jehovah’s sovereignty
and vindicating his name
lead to the sanctification of his name.
Now at this point, you’re trying to think:
‘What does that mean?’
Simply put,
it’s not wrong to say
that we pray
for the vindication of Jehovah’s name
because his reputation
certainly needs to be exonerated.
And what a privilege
we have to be a part of that.
Well, what a way to start
the annual meeting right off the block
—a new understanding.
So this is how we’re going to start,
with the chairman saying a few words.
What else is on the program?
Well, we are looking forward
to seeing what we can enjoy.
Well, when we think of this matter
of the dedication program,
I’m sure you
do appreciate that it’s impossible
for us to tell every story
of every experience
of how our brothers and sisters
have seen Jehovah’s hand help them,
either in their personal lives
or in the actual construction work.
In just a few moments time,
we’re going to have an opportunity
to see a specially prepared video
that will tell us some of those stories.
But this video
is mainly designed to tell us
about what happened
with the construction here at Warwick.
But before we start to watch the video,
the Governing Body asked me
to express appreciation on their behalf
for a very special group
of brothers and sisters.
Who are we talking about?
Well, those thousands
of brothers and sisters
who were working
on all the other projects
that were being either built or renovated
at the same time as the Warwick project.
So sometimes we focus on Warwick,
but all these other brothers and sisters
were likewise making similar sacrifices,
and some of those projects were huge.
For example, Wallkill:
Over 1.1 million square feet (102,193 sq m)
of facilities
were either built or renovated
or remodeled at Wallkill,
and 302 residence rooms were added.
This required 25,000 sheets
of drywall to be hung
and over 451,000 feet (137,465 m)
of electrical wire cables to be installed.
Additionally, new office space
was made for 240 people.
Now, when they added up
how many brothers and sisters
actually helped
with just the Wallkill project,
they came up with a figure
of over 6,000 different individuals.
Then the brothers, at one stage,
started a Saturday work program
that was designed to give
extra help to the project.
And the Bethelites,
who have other assignments
and who in their spare time
offered to give
this extra help on a Saturday,
numbered 1,544
—and they put in
over 10,000 hours of work.
Then we had 937 outside volunteers
from 20 different states
here in the United States
who contributed some 18,000 hours.
So a lot of work went into renovating
and building there at Wallkill.
But what about the quality of the work there?
Was it any less?
No.
In fact, the F Residence
and the Wallkill Office Building
received the highest award
of Four Green Globes
from the Green Building Initiative
—that’s the GBI.
That was back in 2015.
Now at that time,
a project manager of GBI said:
“Of the 23 buildings in the United States
“that have been certified
with Four Green Globes since 2006,
“the Watchtower Wallkill Office Building
achieved the highest point score
with 94 percent.”
Now, of course, since 2015,
other buildings have also received
these Four Green Globes.
But remember,
also among those buildings
that have received it
are all seven buildings here at Warwick.
Well, we could go on and on
about Jehovah’s blessings
with regard to the Wallkill project.
But let’s just take one example:
the Wallkill chiller project
that started in December of 2010.
It was critical, the brothers tell us,
to get the new chillers operational
no later than the first week
of the following July.
But there was a problem
because they wanted to make sure
the presses would continue to operate.
This is how one of the brothers
expressed what happened, he said:
“By mid-June,”
now remember by July
they had to have
the chillers up and running,
“things started to get critical
because of the lack of response
“from the specialists
from the chiller fabricator.
“The Purchasing Department called repeatedly
“but were unable to get a commitment
from the fabricator to meet our deadlines.”
So, what did the brothers do?
Well, they made it a matter
of fervent and urgent prayer.
What happened?
The brother continues:
“A few days later,
“I received a phone call telling me
“that there was a man
from the chiller fabricator
“waiting for me in the main lobby.
“He wanted to quickly see
our start-up schedule and our installations,
“and then give us a list
of things we needed to complete.
“We explained that everything was ready,
“and we needed to begin
the start-up in two weeks.
“Well, he went for a visit.
“As he walked through the factory,
he was amazed.
“He said that he
has never seen an installation
“in all the 20 years
that he has been doing this
that was ready to start on the first visit.”
Then, as he was continuing to be amazed,
he said to the brother:
“Let me know who your insulators are.
I want to hire them.”
Well, the brother said
—very wisely—
that he didn’t tell him until later
that most of the work was done by sisters,
many of whom had no experience at all.
We didn’t tell him that
because we didn’t want him
to steal them away to other projects.
The brother then goes on to say
that eventually he got
enough courage to ask him,
“Well, what caused you
to actually come to the lobby that day?”
Well, the man said
that he’d received an urgent trouble call
from another customer
in a nearby town,
so he decided
he’d just stop by Watchtower on the way.
He then said,
“The trouble call
turned out to be a false alarm.”
Well, the chiller started on schedule
and everything
was operating according to plan.
So that’s just one of many.
Now believe me,
they sent me reams
of papers of experiences
and those that I didn’t use,
please forgive me.
But over and over again,
we see the brothers expressing
how they appreciated the opportunity
to work on the Wallkill project
as well as the other projects,
and how they saw
Jehovah’s hand blessing them
—as many of them sold homes,
simplified their lives,
or put their lives on hold
so that they could be here with us.
So to all those brothers and sisters
who were working
on all the peripheral projects,
we want to say to you:
“Thank you.
Thank you
from the bottom of our hearts.”
But now we have
an opportunity to watch a video
that’s going to have
an interview with the CPC.
Who are the CPC?
The Construction Project Committee
who organized the work here at Warwick.
Isaiah 40:12 gives us a glimpse
into the power and the breadth
of Jehovah’s hand.
Remember, that’s where
it says that Jehovah holds
all “the waters
in the hollow of his hand.”
He can measure the universe
“with a span of his hand.”
And while this is figurative,
it helps us to appreciate
what Jehovah can accomplish
to make sure his will takes place.
Well, when we look
at the beautiful Warwick project,
we truly see that Jehovah’s hand
was involved in what took place there.
Now, last year, you remember
at the annual meeting,
we had the interview
of the five brothers
who made up
the Construction Project Committee.
And those brothers
were the ones who oversaw
and coordinated
the work of that project,
and they explained how
the Warwick project took place.
Well, this year
at this special dedication program,
we are again going to interview
these dear brothers,
and this time they’re going
to tell us their experiences
and other experiences
that they had that convince them
that Jehovah’s hand was in this project.
Well, we’ve got some
really touching experiences
to relate about ones who really sacrificed
in order to volunteer on the project
and how their families supported them.
They’re really going to be beautiful.
And we also have some
good experiences in regards
to how the work was accomplished
and seeing Jehovah’s hand in it.
And lastly, we’re going to see
how Jehovah’s hand
was really shown even in nonbelievers
and what they experienced
and how the work was accomplished.
Let’s get started with the aspect of how
those who came to work
on the project saw Jehovah’s hand.
And I think, Rich, you had
an overarching comment
that really convinced you of this.
Despite challenging weather, long commutes,
difficult living situations, and hard jobs,
our brothers manifested
the fruitage of the spirit.
You could see that at work,
and you knew Jehovah was working with them
and motivating their work, and it really made
the project something very special.
One couple had decided
that with their circumstances
and their finances,
that for a maximum,
they could come and work
for three weeks on the project
—which they did.
But during the third week,
they were asked
if they could possibly extend
to a fourth week.
So they prayed to Jehovah:
“Please just give us joy;
“help us not to have anxiety about this.
“Even though our finances will be at zero,
we want to stay the fourth week.”
They did.
They went on their way home,
back to the airport,
and at the departure gate,
there was an announcement
that the flight was overbooked.
They were looking for volunteers
to take a later flight,
and in compensation the airline
would give a very significant amount of cash.
Well, they took the cash
—no longer had their finances at zero.
But that’s not where
they felt Jehovah’s hand.
They felt it that last week
—the joy while they were working
and not having the anxiety
over what the final outcome might be.
I’ll never forget the night
that Troy called our room
and said that one of our volunteers
that was going to be arriving—
They were fixing a tire alongside
the road back at their home,
and the brother’s young wife
was holding the flashlight.
A car veered off the road, hit her,
and killed her right in front of him.
Yeah, he’d already been invited
and already scheduled to come.
But when this happened,
we didn’t expect him to come,
and we reassured him that it’s OK
to stay back and handle matters.
But he was determined to come.
What was amazing was to see how
Jehovah helped him during that time.
His overseers that were assigned
to care for him
and the department he worked with,
they rallied to him.
And in the end, he says he felt
that this experience
helped him to recover
emotionally, spiritually,
and he saw Jehovah’s blessings in it.
And it gave him pure evidence
that Jehovah’s promises will come true.
A brother came for a week,
but his wife was back home
with very serious health problems.
The wife told her husband:
“You must go.
This is the way I can make
a sacrifice to the project.”
So seeing Jehovah’s hand on sisters like that
and their self-sacrificing spirit,
it made us feel like those sisters
were right there working on the project.
As we got into the project,
as it became evident
that this project
really was only going to get done
as a result of Jehovah’s spirit,
we saw our brothers transform themselves.
They recognized that we were,
first and foremost, spiritual men.
We needed Jehovah’s blessing.
So before a meeting started,
the brothers would get together
and say a prayer.
It was clear to everyone
that it was only going to be
as a result of Jehovah’s spirit
that this project
was going to get done.
These overseers
quickly became known,
not for their trade skills,
but for being shepherds.
They looked out for the brothers and sisters;
they cared about them.
So as a committee, we assigned
shepherding calls to ourselves
—three to four a month—
and along with other shepherding
within our departments.
But you would see these
dear brothers and sisters
come in at the end of the day
for a shepherding call
—dirt or grease from head to toe, cold,
gloves on, ear warmers,
huge smiles.
You could just feel
that Jehovah was just lifting us up
and moving us along for another day.
It was quite an experience.
It was as if Jehovah was telling us,
‘Spirituality is more important
—and each other—
than accomplishing the work.’
And that really helped us to see
where our priorities should be.
We found that as long as we
looked out for the friends
—spiritually and emotionally—
as best we could,
they did far and above anything
we could have ever hoped for.
It really was a wonderful example
—how they responded
to a spiritual atmosphere.
Troy,
how about the local brothers and sisters?
They had a good share too.
Yeah, the local brothers and sisters
in the congregations
surrounding the project
were tremendous.
Quite a few would come
early in the morning
to help guide the buses
to their parking spots,
to provide safe walkways,
to direct traffic and parking.
And they would get up very early
—freezing cold temperatures.
They would work, have breakfast,
and then they would have to go off
to their secular work
and take care of their daily lives.
It was really a good example
of self-sacrifice.
Another thing that they did,
which was just outstanding,
is that we had up to 700 trips
to the airport on a given weekend
—volunteers coming, volunteers going.
And it was constant for years at a time,
and yet most of those airport runs were done
by our local friends,
even using their own vehicles.
Now, you brothers
poured yourselves out on the project.
You personally saw
Jehovah’s hand
helping you just when
you needed it the most.
Could you share a few of those experiences?
I remember an instance
where we were meeting
with a Governing Body member
on something else.
And in the conversation,
it just lent itself to the question,
‘Just what was it that made him
or the rest of the Governing Body
so convinced that this project
was going to get done on time?’
And he explained
that during the acquisition of the property,
they had established terms in the acquisition
that for them was sort of a coal test.
And Jehovah fulfilled the test
exactly as they expected.
And from that point on,
he mentioned that he himself
and every one of the members
of the Governing Body
were firmly convinced
that it was Jehovah’s will
to move from Brooklyn to Warwick.
I needed to transmit that confidence
to the brothers on the project as well.
We were getting ready
to step off the bridge, so to speak,
on some big decisions that we
weren’t going to be able to retract;
big dollars
that were going to be spent
for product that we
weren’t going to be able to send back.
We needed more faith.
I can remember two instances in particular
where I personally was discouraged,
and you could kind of see it in our family.
In both those times, a Governing Body
member showed up unscheduled
and visited and made
personal expressions to us
—expressions to the family—
and it was just what we
needed to keep us going.
But now,
let’s change thought a little bit.
We also talked
about how you saw Jehovah’s hand
in how the work was accomplished.
Jehovah caused our brothers to become
not only good tradesmen
but world-class, expert tradesmen.
It was very common to see them
take off their hard hats
and say a group prayer.
They realized it was a part of their worship
and it facilitated Jehovah’s hand
to be expressed through their work as well.
Didn’t you notice, Rick,
they felt a real need to have
Jehovah’s spirit to be able to do
what they needed to do.
So they would look for an opportunity to pray
before they tried to accomplish something.
That feeling that they really cared
and that it was part of their
worship was even reflected
in the prayerful attitude
with which they went about the work.
We would often inform
the family of a difficult challenge
or problem that we were facing,
either as a committee or as a project.
We would ask them to pray about it.
And they would come back and tell us,
“I’ve been praying about this.”
And then we would hear that their families
back home were praying about it.
And we would regularly get cards and letters
from the field, family worship projects
—the kids would draw pictures
and send them to us.
And they put care packages
—hundreds of them—together.
We even got cards and letters
from all over the world
—Japan, Australia, and Europe.
One sister from Europe sent
about 65 pounds (30 kg)
of Swiss chocolate
for the family to enjoy.
And Rick, do you remember
our infamous Friday afternoon
design, coordination,
and construction meeting?
Every time after prayer,
we’d start the same way:
“We don’t have what we need, brothers,
to work next week.
We don’t have sufficient enough drawings.”
Rick would be there working;
he’d be back and forth
e-mailing with other ones;
he’d be getting stuff sent in.
We would conclude that meeting
at 5:00 p.m. on a Friday
every time with:
“You know what?
We have enough
to work until next Friday.”
And there, poor Rick,
we’d go again
the following Friday,
and we’d start back up again.
But Jehovah would give us
what we needed as if he was telling us:
‘Don’t worry.
I’ve got this.
I’ve got it under control.
Just keep working.’
You also mentioned
some comments regarding the use
of the construction groups
and how that came about.
We had the most qualified people
you could ever find there
—ready to go to work.
We simply didn’t have enough of them.
It was a matter of numbers.
And so the committee charged a couple of us
to look in and see what we could do
to mobilize the nation in an organized way.
All we had was a Saturday afternoon.
And I thought, ‘This isn’t enough time;
you can’t organize this effort.’
We sat down at 1:30 p.m.
By 3:00 p.m.,
what would become known
as the Warwick Construction Group effort
—Jehovah built it!
He laid it out in front of us
how each building would be cared for.
Yeah, did we adjust a few things
as we went along?
Absolutely!
But that was the framework.
We divided the country up
into 11 different areas.
We appointed three brothers in each area
that would help to identify
the volunteers and bring them
—reach out to the volunteers,
tell them we need them,
explain the work ahead of time.
And it really was an amazing arrangement.
Of the 27,000 volunteers that we had on-site,
21,000 were organized and sent to Warwick
by these 11 construction groups.
So they would do any initial training
that they needed to do and get organized
so that they could come to Warwick
and hit the ground running.
Do you remember when we had
the challenge with pipe insulation?
How many miles of pipes do we have?
Hundreds of miles of pipes to insulate.
That was a trade that really didn’t exist
among the brotherhood in the United States
—at least not nearly
the number we would need.
And so our construction group brothers said:
“Well, how hard can it be?
We’ll put on training programs.”
And so one or two, I think, came to Bethel;
saw how it was done.
The group started putting on training
in the field
at a Kingdom Hall or at a brother’s home.
And they trained about 2,000 volunteers
on how to do pipe insulation
—mostly sisters.
And they did all of that work,
and they did a really professional job at it.
I think that also speaks
of the role
the sisters played on our project.
The ones that were assigned there.
The ones in the field that were coming in.
They played a tremendous role.
We saw Jehovah’s spirit on them
in helping us resolve problems,
in accomplishing the work,
and so forth.
So with our training programs
and orientation,
the brothers quickly understood
that safety and spirituality
is a personal expression
between them and Jehovah, first.
Safety is a spiritual value.
It’s something that we owe
our brothers and sisters;
we owe our families;
we owe to Jehovah, who is the Source of life.
We had many nonbelievers
involved on this project.
How did they even get to see
Jehovah’s hand in this?
We were meeting with different officials
on a particular aspect of the project,
and we had a bit of a difference
of opinion as to what would be needed.
But we really were not able
to reach an agreement with the officials.
At that point,
we realized that taking the secular,
technical approach wasn’t going to work.
We pushed the plans aside,
said a silent prayer,
and then just asked the officials:
“What can we do to address your concerns?
What would you like to see us do?”
That changed the tone of the discussion.
It changed
from a technical-based discussion
to “We’re here
to work together as neighbors,
to come to a common accord.”
And we eventually worked out
a compromise that met their concerns.
A few weeks later,
we were back in front of the same officials
but on a totally different subject.
But before we could even present
what we were there to talk about,
they stopped us
and they just wanted to commend us
for how good
the last meeting we had went.
And we were looking at each other
because we didn’t think it went that well.
But they pointed out how
they felt that they were dignified
and they really appreciated
the way we worked with them.
And so it became clear
to us that this project
wasn’t entirely
about technical issues,
but really about manifesting
Jehovah’s hand
through the fruitage of the spirit
as we dealt with the officials.
We had a fuel truck that was
in a local shop getting repaired.
And a fuel truck is critical for our project
because at four o’clock in the morning,
4:30 a.m., our brothers are out there to fuel
the equipment so we can get
the work done that day.
They called to go pick it up
and the gentleman told them:
“Sorry, we’re closed.
Well, what project are you on?”
We said, “Well,
we’re with the Warwick project here
with Jehovah’s Witnesses,
with Watchtower.”
He goes: “Oh, Watchtower.
Oh, no problem.
“I’m going to leave the gate open;
I’m going to show you where the keys are;
I’ll have it there for you,
and you can take the vehicle.”
He said, “I trust you people.”
One of the bus drivers,
he showed up late one morning,
and then he explained
why he was late.
He had been assigned
the wrong bus that morning,
and his dispatcher made him
come back and switch buses.
He said:
“I was so mad at him.
“I told him:
‘These people are working for God.
“‘They’re not getting paid;
they have to get to work on time;
they have to do this work.’”
He then told the friends, he said:
“I know I’m going to be
one of Jehovah’s Witnesses one day.
I’m going to serve my God, Jehovah.”
And then he sat down,
and he drove the friends to work.
A brother was out in the ministry.
He knocks on a gentleman’s door.
The gentleman comes to the door,
and he starts his presentation,
and the gentleman interrupts him
and says, “Have you been to Warwick?”
And the brother steps back:
“Well, no. No one’s allowed at Warwick.
It’s under construction.”
He goes:
“No, I’ve been there.
“I worked there,
and it was very clean, organized,
“and the people were
the friendliest people I have ever seen.
It was the best experience of my life
to work on that project.”
One of the jobs
was to pull in this main feeder,
this main electrical line into the complex
—very technical piece.
And so we had that scheduled
for December 24,
and there was a little bit of an aversion
on the part of the contractors
that wanted to be able to monitor
when this was going in.
And we said: “No, I’m sorry,
this is the date we need to do this.
We’re on a day-to-day schedule
that we need to accomplish.”
“Well, who’s going to do it?”
“Well, as you know,
we use women a lot on this site,
and this is a crew of sisters.”
“Well, I can’t believe that.
“That’s a heavy line,
and that can’t be striking the ground.
It’s fragile until it gets into the conduit.”
And he said:
“Well, I wasn’t working tomorrow.
I’m going to call my wife,
and I’m going to come in tomorrow anyway.”
Sure enough, he came in
and spent a couple of hours there.
Our sisters, as usual, did phenomenal work
—pulled the line in, got it done.
Do you remember how long
it took them to do the work?
Two hours!
They had it pulled in.
Two hours, yeah, it was just phenomenal.
He just shook his head and went home.
We hired the largest contractor
in that part of New York State
to perform a significant amount
of work on-site.
And toward the end of the project,
the head of that company told us, he said:
“When you first came to us and you described
“what you were going to build
and the size of it,
“and then you told us the schedule
that you were hoping to meet,
and then you told us you
were going to do it with volunteers,”
he said, “we were happy
to take your money.
“But when you left,
we were literally laughing at you.
“We knew there was
no way you could ever do
“this much construction
in that short of a time
“—let alone with volunteers—
and that this was going to be a disaster.
We’re not laughing anymore.”
So they could see Jehovah’s hand
on that project.
Well, we thank all of you for those very,
very encouraging experiences.
It makes us think of Isaiah 59:1
which reminds us that Jehovah’s hand
is not too short to accomplish his will,
and this is truly evident on this project.
And I know you brothers would,
as well as all of us,
like to thank all who had a share in this
—all those who physically
came here to volunteer,
the local brothers and sisters
who supported us,
all those from home,
and everybody with their prayers.
We truly appreciate that.
And we’d also like to thank you
five brothers for the sacrifices
that you and your wives
made during this project.
And another evidence for me
that Jehovah’s hand was in this project is:
You five brothers are all friends.
And just interacting with one another
and being with you,
you can see that that’s evidence
of Jehovah’s spirit.
But, ultimately, our thanks goes
to Jehovah for what took place,
because we know he ultimately
was behind the success of this project.
And we’re very thankful
that all of us had a chance to witness
Jehovah’s hand in action in what took place.
Well, that certainly was
a beautiful experience, wasn’t it?
And for those of us that are visiting here,
if you meet someone
who worked on the project,
make sure to ask them,
“How did you see Jehovah’s hand
in helping you personally
and in the project?”
And you may be surprised at what stories
you learn by asking that question.
Well, at this point, what we’re going to do
is something a little different,
an interactive exam, or test,
to see who qualifies
to remain in the auditorium.
Now, what we’d like
you to do is first of all,
you have to answer the question:
How many facilities
are being dedicated today?
Then list them in alphabetical order.
Well, you know
we’re not going to do that to you.
But that little worry
that you felt will be allayed
when you watch the next video
which tells you about the facilities
that are going to be dedicated.
To support the Kingdom work,
expansion has recently
been underway
within the United States.
This involves the construction
of the new world headquarters
at Warwick along with
15 other buildings being dedicated
at the 2017 annual meeting.
Let’s visit each site
and see how these buildings
affect us in our Kingdom service
and ultimately bring praise to Jehovah.
Videos have become
an important tool in our worship,
and so the need
to produce them faster
and in greater quantity
has risen dramatically.
Five years ago,
the department produced
one feature film each year
along with a handful of smaller videos.
During 2016, that number grew
to more than 350 productions.
The existing facilities in Patterson
consisted of three smaller studios.
To produce more content simultaneously,
a larger production space
with multiple stages was needed.
In early 2015, on Mount Ebo Road,
a large building less than five miles away
from Patterson was acquired.
Originally built
as a pharmaceutical warehouse,
the building had more than
70,000 square feet (6,503 sq m)
of open space.
Work began to convert the warehouse
into one large soundstage
and two smaller stages.
Renovations were completed
in December 2016.
The request for videos is certainly
not slowing down; it’s increasing.
So we have scheduled for 2017
around 420 videos that will be used
in various aspects of the organization.
So we have seen the need
to have increased personnel
and increased facilities
to accommodate all these requests.
So we can see
that Jehovah has raised up
brothers and sisters,
or “gifts in men” and women,
that have been able to help produce
the beautiful music we have
and the videos that are touching
minds and hearts.
Just one mile away from Mount Ebo,
a 12,000-square-foot (1,114 sq m) building
was purchased and converted
into a carpentry shop
for building props and sets.
The Mountain View Apartments
were also purchased and renovated,
providing housing
for 100 Bethel family members.
From the oversight of congregations
and meeting arrangements
to territory assignments
and other aspects of the preaching work,
Kingdom activities are overseen
by the Branch Committee
with direction provided
by the Service Department.
In the United States branch,
there was a need for expanded facilities
to house these departments at Wallkill.
The work for the Wallkill expansion project
was basically completed
in November of 2015.
It involved new construction
for residence buildings,
the new F Garage,
and the new office building.
So between the new
and the renovated facilities,
it was over
1,118,000 square feet (103,865 sq m).
You have to remember, too,
that at the same time
all the departments
were still running, you know.
Meanwhile, all these buildings
were going up around us.
I’m sure it didn’t appear
this way to the workers,
but to us it was like it was
on a high-speed video
at the rate that it went up.
It was incredible!
It wasn’t just their skills
and expertise that they brought.
It was their zeal;
it was their joy;
it was their positive attitude
that they were able to maintain
—even despite the heavy workload.
And that engenders appreciation
and zeal among all of those
who’ve come in contact with them.
Many are taking advantage of tools
such as JW Library and the JW Language app
to read, study, and teach the Bible.
The increased use of technologies like these
has created the need
for more computer engineers
and other personnel to design,
develop, and test this software.
Work space and housing
for these volunteers is now being provided
at the Rivercrest apartment complex
in Fishkill.
Another important concern
of the United States branch
involves caring for senior members
of the Bethel family.
To meet that need, work was completed
in 2016 on Congregate North and South.
Congregate living is really home care.
Home care for the most precious ones
among our Bethel family.
We’re surrounded by
many wonderful brothers and sisters
who are very hard working
and care so much about us.
And this has touched my heart.
The blessings are being able to be
with friends that we’ve known for years.
It’s like a reunion that doesn’t stop.
Jehovah has really taken good care
of all of them.
The care that our dear older ones
receive is outstanding.
And it’s true that we have people who care.
But there’s a reason:
It reflects Jehovah’s view of older ones.
He says at Isaiah 46:4:
“Until you grow old . . .
I will carry you.”
And that’s how those who have been trained
by Jehovah treat the older ones.
So it’s really a loving atmosphere
that they are in.
To receive and store building materials,
a 220,000-square-foot (20,438 sq m)
warehouse
was purchased in 2014
in Montgomery, New York.
At the Montgomery Warehouse,
materials were staged
and residential bathrooms
for Warwick were prefabricated
—speeding up construction on-site.
The warehouse continues to be used
as a storage facility
for both the U.S. branch
and the world headquarters.
In 2014, two hotels were purchased:
Newburgh Center A and Newburgh Center B.
Being centrally located
between all three sites,
these hotels have been ideal
for housing temporary workers
and hosting guests visiting
the Bethel facilities.
These hotels were a great help
for the workers.
They were going to be closer now
to the project.
Before, with that long commute
from Brooklyn on the bus,
it was tiring by the time they got to work.
But now they were closer,
so they could get a little more rest
in the evenings and the mornings
and be more productive.
These workers are lovable.
You have to love them.
You think about all the sacrifices.
They left homes, sold homes, and left jobs,
businesses, family, friends, their pets.
You thank them, but they thank you.
They thank you for the privilege of coming,
even though they’re the ones
that made so many sacrifices.
So they’re an encouragement
to the rest of us.
The plan to relocate
the world headquarters to Warwick
goes back more than eight years
when we first purchased
this 253-acre (102 ha) property
50 miles (80 km) northwest of Brooklyn.
Some of the reasons that Brooklyn
was so advantageous
no longer have such a key role for us.
And then, just the fact of living in a city
that continues to get bigger and bigger
created more and more complications
and more costs.
But I often think, even so,
the real reason we moved out of Brooklyn
is what the Governing Body
has said from the beginning
—that they are convinced
Jehovah’s spirit directed them
to move out of Brooklyn
and to come up here to Warwick, New York.
And we’re looking forward to—
At some point in time,
we’re going to look back and we’re going
to see what all the other reasons are
why Jehovah directed that to take place.
The Warwick property included
a number of abandoned buildings
that needed to be demolished and removed.
Once the site was cleared
and plans were approved,
construction began on July 29, 2013,
and moved at a remarkable pace.
About 4,000 a day were coming to the site.
Over 27,000 of our brothers
and sisters worked here.
Then you had everybody in Bethel
—from the Governing Body
all the way down to departments—
everybody was united
in making this project a success.
And there were challenges,
but they would be settled in peace and love
and all the qualities of Jehovah’s spirit.
That is a modern-day miracle.
Especially when you think
about the world we are living in
that is so fragmented and the lack of unity.
And so you look at that,
and it just makes you so proud
to be part of this organization.
I remember the first time
visiting Warwick after the completion.
I call it a happy/sad moment:
happy because now the buildings were going
to be used for the intended purpose
but sad because you didn’t see
the high-vis vests anymore.
It was a beautiful scene
with all those colorful vests,
and now you didn’t see them,
so it was sad.
You get choked up.
You realize that behind every vest
there was a beautiful Kingdom story,
and you miss them.
The environment here at Warwick
is just beautiful.
It’s quiet; it’s refreshing.
And it makes me really appreciate
Jehovah’s creation around us.
It’s beautiful to be here,
and I thank Jehovah for the privilege.
Warwick is a complex of eight buildings
—more than a million and a half
square feet (139,354 sq m) of construction.
Bethel housing is provided
in four residence buildings
with 569 rooms along with another residence
in nearby Sterling Forest
with another 21 rooms.
And just a short distance away
is the Tuxedo facility.
Computer Department Engineering
and the Broadcasting studio are located here,
where the monthly broadcast
is produced and now made available
in over 130 languages.
The Office/Services Building
primarily serves as the hub
for most world headquarters functions.
The building also includes three exhibits,
where visitors can take self-guided tours:
“The Bible and the Divine Name,”
which features rare Bibles
and highlights how God’s name
has been preserved in the Scriptures;
the exhibit “A People for Jehovah’s Name,”
a visual history of Jehovah’s Witnesses;
and “World Headquarters—Faith in Action,”
which explains how Witnesses are organized
to study, teach, and live
by what we learn in the Bible.
When you travel anywhere
in the United States branch
or internationally, for that matter,
there’s someone who has worked on Warwick.
And the feeling that you get is
that Warwick
is not the world headquarters;
it’s our world headquarters.
I’ve heard a number say
that when they go back home,
they’re never going to be the same.
Some have simplified, so they’ve moved
from a big house to an apartment.
Others have started pioneering,
so that’s what they’re going to do.
It’s really been a witness to the Witnesses.
Jehovah looks for opportunities
to bless his people.
That makes him happy.
And now you turn it around,
and you look at all the work
that’s gone into this
—when he sees all those who volunteered
to come on the project,
all of our brothers and sisters
around the world who made donations,
those who included it in their prayers,
those who helped others to come—
how proud that must make Jehovah!
And he’s just looking to bless them for that.
I sometimes try to imagine
the conversations in heaven
between the angels and the kings in heaven
and how they’re so proud
of all these workers down here.
And no doubt many of them
were involved in the project.
We think of the workers here on earth,
but how about the workers in heaven?
They may have been involved
more than a few times
with safety issues and with legal matters.
So Jehovah was proud of everyone
—his universal family—
both in heaven and on earth
with these projects.
I feel that it’s going
to build up the spirituality
of our brothers and sisters as they come.
And as we know, they’re coming
from all over the world,
and that’s only going
to further advance the work.
These buildings are beautiful,
and it’s a beautiful setting.
That brings praise to Jehovah.
But what will bring the greatest praise
is how these buildings,
these tools, will be used
—to honor his name,
to bring attention to his Kingdom,
to spearhead the preaching work.
What these buildings will help
the Governing Body accomplish
will bring the greatest praise to Jehovah.
So now we will be passing out those tests.
No.
No, now is the time
for an interactive part of our program
where we have an opportunity
to raise our voices in praise to Jehovah.
So if you’d like to stand, if you’re able,
we’re going to sing
our new dedication song at this time.
And remember that’s entitled
“A Place That Will Bring You Praise.”
What a beautiful song
—sung beautifully.
If you’d like to take your seats,
we’ve now arrived at the time
for a highlight of our program
—the dedication talk.
And this is going to be given to us
by the longest-serving member
of the current Governing Body,
Brother Gerrit Lösch.
And the title of his talk is
“Expansion That Glorifies Jehovah.”
Modern-day worship of Jehovah
began in a small way.
It calls to mind the scripture that says,
according to Zechariah 4:10:
“Who has despised
the day of small beginnings?”
What is the context of the scripture?
In the year 537 before our Common Era,
Jehovah moved Persian King Cyrus
—who had conquered Babylon—
to release the Israelites
that were held captive there for 70 years,
opening the way for them
to return to Jerusalem and Judah.
They were to restore true worship
and rebuild the temple
that Nebuchadnezzar had destroyed.
How many exiles returned
to Jerusalem from Babylon
in 537 B.C.E.?
According to Ezra 2:64,
about 50,000.
The footnote in the sixth edition
of Isaac Leeser’s translation of the Bible
suggests that including women and children,
the number amounted to about 200,000.
In the seventh month of the year 537 B.C.E.,
the altar was set up.
And in the following year, 536 B.C.E.,
the foundation of the new temple was laid.
But after laying the foundation,
they neglected to rebuild
the temple on that foundation.
Enemies round about also
discouraged them from doing so.
The enemies succeeded
to place a ban on the work
about 15 years later
in 522 before our Common Era.
Two years after that, in 520 B.C.E.
—stirred up by the prophets
Haggai and Zechariah—
Governor Zerubbabel
and Joshua the high priest
courageously resumed the construction
of the temple despite the ban.
Jehovah proclaimed that:
“The hands of Zerubbabel
have laid the foundation of this house,
“and his own hands will finish it.
. . . For who has despised
the day of small beginnings?”
—Zechariah 4:9, 10.
The rebuilding of Jehovah’s temple
at Jerusalem had a modest beginning,
yes, but it was not to be despised.
After all,
it involved true worship
—pure worship of Jehovah.
The year 520 B.C.E.
saw this “day of small beginnings,”
but in 515 B.C.E.,
22 years after the return from Babylon
and 5 years
after the construction project was resumed,
the temple was completed.
The former exiles held the inauguration,
or we could say dedication
of this house with joy
—Ezra 6:13-16—
and this resulted in Jehovah’s praise.
He was glorified by the rebuilt temple.
There were also small beginnings
for the Christian congregation
at Pentecost 33 of our Common Era.
And Jesus related this illustration
at Matthew 13:31, 32:
“The Kingdom of the heavens
is like a mustard grain
“that a man took
and planted in his field.
“It is, in fact,
the tiniest of all the seeds,
“but when it has grown,
“it is the largest of the vegetable plants
and becomes a tree,
so that the birds of heaven come
and find lodging among its branches.”
What’s the meaning
of Jesus’ illustration of the mustard grain?
The grain itself represents
the Kingdom message
as well as what results
from the preaching of that message
—the Christian congregation.
Like the mustard grain
that is “the tiniest of all the seeds,”
the Christian congregation
had small beginnings
in 33 of our Common Era.
However, within a few decades,
the congregation grew rapidly.
It expanded beyond all expectations.
Jesus tells us that “the birds of heaven”
were able to “find lodging
among its branches.”
These figurative birds
picture righthearted individuals
who find spiritual food, shade, and shelter
within the Christian congregation.
There were also small beginnings
in modern times.
Consider our first headquarters.
In modern times,
Bible Students, as we were called,
had headquarters offices first
at 101 Fifth Avenue in Pittsburgh,
and thereafter at 44 Federal Street,
Allegheny, Pennsylvania.
By the late 1880’s,
they built their own structure.
Completed in 1889 at Arch Street,
it was known as the Bible House.
Because of continued expansion,
headquarters was transferred
to Brooklyn, New York,
in the years 1908-1909.
In 1908, the old “Plymouth Bethel,”
13-17 Hicks Street, Brooklyn,
was purchased.
It belonged
to the Plymouth Congregational Church.
Also, 124 Columbia Heights, close by,
was purchased from the Plymouth Church.
It soon became the new home
of our headquarters staff
of —at that time— 30 persons,
and they called it Bethel,
meaning “House of God.”
“Bethel” was the name the Plymouth Church
had given to their building on Hicks Street.
The remodeled Hicks Street building
then became known
as the Brooklyn Tabernacle.
It housed offices and an auditorium.
On January 31, 1909,
350 persons were present
for the dedication
of the new headquarters.
But there were also small beginnings
in a different sense
in 1919 of our Common Era.
The statement at Zechariah 4:10
about “small beginnings”
applied after the Israelites
had returned from Babylon.
Was there a parallel in modern times?
Yes.
In our century,
for Jehovah’s anointed Christians,
it was a “day of small beginnings” in 1919,
when they were completely freed
from domination by Babylon the Great
—the world conglomerate
of false religion—
in order to restore true worship.
Already in the years before,
they had progressively cleansed
themselves from Babylon the Great.
From 1914 to 1919,
the brothers lived
through a number of crises and tests,
but this came to an end in 1919.
The Memorial of Christ’s death
was celebrated on Sunday, April 13, 1919,
with 17,961 attending in many lands.
This was, of course,
a lot less than the number of returnees
from literal Babylon.
And of these 18,000,
about 4,000 also reported field service.
Many looked down on the brothers.
Yes, there were again small beginnings,
but still they were approved by Jehovah,
and therefore he caused expansion ever since.
There is expansion in the material sense.
In order to meet together in worship,
last year about 1,000 properties
were purchased
and new Kingdom Halls
constructed on them.
In addition, there were many more
where major or minor renovations were done.
Branch offices are being expanded
and also newly built
remote translation offices,
Bible school facilities, and Assembly Halls.
In the United States,
we now have 47 active Assembly Halls.
Also, there is expansion in numbers.
In the Democratic Republic of Congo,
there were almost 1.2 million
who attended the Memorial this year.
In Mexico, without Central America,
there were about 2.2 million who attended.
Worldwide, about 20 million
attended the Memorial
of Christ’s death last year.
Each weekend,
an average of 5,300 new ones
are getting baptized
and becoming our brothers and sisters.
Our worldwide family and brotherhood grows.
But our numerical expansion in itself
is not proof that we have the truth.
Other religions have many more members
and some grow quickly.
There are about 1.5 billion Muslims
in the world,
second only to the number
of named Christians.
But numbers alone prove nothing.
Truth is not measured in numbers.
But the combination
of true teaching, true love,
high moral standards, neutrality,
carrying and sanctifying God’s holy name
—together with the increase—
that does prove beyond a doubt
that Jehovah has chosen us as his people.
At Isaiah 60:22,
there’s this prophecy that was foretold,
and it says:
“The little one will become a thousand
“and the small one a mighty nation.
I myself, Jehovah,
will speed it up in its own time.”
Who is that “mighty nation”?
It’s the great crowd
and the anointed together.
They constitute
a combined “mighty nation,”
although they
are relatively few when compared
to the present total world population
of more than 7.5 billion,
as of March of this year.
Many who visit us at Warwick,
Wallkill, or Patterson say,
“Oh, you live here like in a paradise.”
And those saying this may have in mind
the loving fellowship that we enjoy
and also the beautiful surroundings.
And the fact is that we do live in a paradise
—a spiritual paradise.
But what about you visitors
and all those who are watching this program
by streaming and otherwise?
The good news is that you
are also in the spiritual paradise.
All of our worldwide brotherhood
live in this spiritual paradise.
Now, what is the spiritual paradise?
It involves our relationship with Jehovah.
It involves the spiritual food
that we enjoy served by the faithful slave.
It also involves
the loving relationship with our brothers
in the congregation
and our worldwide brotherhood.
It includes personal blessings from Jehovah
that he bestows upon us in everyday life.
The spiritual paradise
is the spiritually secure,
prosperous environment
or realm of activity
in which we worship Jehovah.
No matter where we live on earth,
we are in this paradise
as long as we actively support
the worship of Jehovah
and endeavor to display the new personality.
The spiritual paradise began in a limited way
in 33 of our Common Era at Pentecost.
It underwent changes during the centuries
but was restored in 1919.
The spiritual paradise relates
to the divine approval of the anointed
that became evident that year in 1919.
In comparison with the first century,
the anointed enjoy
increased spiritual prosperity
since that time.
And since the 1930’s,
those with an earthly hope
also enter the spiritual paradise.
And ultimately, the spiritual paradise
will be in full existence,
in perfection,
in the new world.
Do we appreciate that spiritual paradise?
Satan will try to destroy
our spiritual paradise.
He thinks he can succeed
because we seem vulnerable.
He may try to disrupt
the flow of spiritual food
or break up our unity
or stop us from zealously preaching
—all elements of the spiritual paradise.
Through political governments,
he will try to efface true worshippers
and true worship from the earth,
but he will not succeed.
He will be thrown
into an abyss for a thousand years,
and after that
he will be crushed out of existence.
What about the governments
that he controls now?
They will already be crushed at Armageddon
—forever.
The Messianic Kingdom
will take control of the earth,
which eventually will become
a perfect, literal paradise,
and then the spiritual paradise
and the physical paradise
will exist concurrently.
The expansion
of the spiritual paradise since 1919
was paralleled by material expansion.
Let me take you back on history lane.
First, let’s talk about our printing efforts.
In 1920, we started with a rotary press
at Myrtle Avenue, New York.
In 1922,
the printery was relocated
to 18 Concord Street.
From 1927 to 1986,
additional printery buildings were bought
and erected on Adams Street.
But what about residence
and office expansion?
On October 10, 1960,
there was the dedication of a new residence
and office building at 107 Columbia Heights;
630 brothers attended
in the ground-floor Kingdom Hall.
The new building,
Brother Franz said,
reminds us of the psalmist’s words:
that everyone in Jehovah’s temple
would speak his glory.
In 1969,
the 119 Columbia Heights residence was built
and dedicated on May 2.
In the same year,
the complex was bought
from Squibb Pharmaceuticals,
and it served as world headquarters
until we moved here to Warwick.
The address was 25-30 Columbia Heights,
and it was dedicated on March 15, 1982.
Later, buildings number 48 and 50
were also joined to the number 30 building.
Close by is the 85 Jay Street lot,
a whole city block that was used for parking.
Then, September 18, 1995,
there was another
important dedication program.
Seventeen residences had been added
since the previous dedication
of the Bethel residence
on May 2, 1969.
Among the added residences
there was the Towers Hotel
that we bought in 1975,
the Bossert Hotel,
Standish Hotel, Sliver building,
the 108 Joralemon Street building,
the 30-story Sands Street building,
and the 97 Columbia Heights building
—formerly there was
the Margaret Hotel on that property.
The 360 Furman Street building,
which housed our shipping department
and some other departments,
was purchased by us on March 15, 1983,
and was totally renovated.
It had a million square feet (93,000 sq m)
of floor space.
As of this date, most of our properties
—almost all of them—
have already been sold,
and this more than covered the expenses
needed to build headquarters here.
Well, what about expansion at Wallkill?
In 1963,
the farm at Wallkill
was purchased from brothers.
It is 75 miles or 120 kilometers
away from New York City.
New residence buildings were completed
in 1968, 1971, and 1973.
The large printery
was eventually built in 1973
and expanded in 1975.
In 2004,
printing in New York was discontinued,
and all printing
was consolidated at Wallkill.
On May 15, 2005,
there was the dedication program
for the expanded Wallkill complex
and facilities.
Today, we also dedicate a new residence,
a new parking garage,
a new office building at Wallkill,
as well as the Montgomery Warehouse,
and two nearby hotels and a diner
that you saw before in the video.
Wallkill has become the national headquarters
for the United States branch,
and most of the Branch Committee members
live at Wallkill.
Warwick is the worldwide headquarters
—so that’s the difference.
But there was also
a complex built at Patterson
in the mid-1990’s
with offices, residences,
and theocratic schools.
And on May 19, 1999,
was the dedication program.
Recently,
the Mount Ebo video studios on Route 22,
close to Patterson, were added
and also another building.
Now, Patterson is also considered
as part of world headquarters.
Also, the Tuxedo building
that we bought from the paper company
and where our broadcasting studio is now,
is part of world headquarters.
It’s situated just about 10 minutes
from here on the same country road.
Finally, we also dedicate
the Rivercrest complex
that was bought in Fishkill,
where several hundred Bethelites live.
Today, we will focus on the dedication
of our beautiful world headquarters complex
at Warwick.
Now, why was it built here?
Well, we trust that it was Jehovah
that wanted us to build it here.
Well, what we learn from ancient times
is that according to 2 Kings 23:27,
Jehovah was the one who chose
Jerusalem as a center of worship.
And in our time,
our world headquarters is a center
that promotes true worship worldwide,
and we believe it was chosen by Jehovah.
All the expansion
that we talked about glorifies Jehovah.
The apostle Paul had the right attitude.
He wrote at 1 Thessalonians 2:6:
“Nor have we been seeking glory from men.”
Yes, we seek Jehovah’s glory,
not our own glory.
He is the one that caused and blessed
the construction of our complexes.
I’m sure you agree.
Jehovah is the one who blessed
the rebuilding of the physical temple
in the times of Zerubbabel.
And Jehovah said back then,
according to Isaiah 60:7:
“I will beautify my glorious house.”
Now, the prophecy about the “glorious house”
in our time refers,
not to the literal structures
of world headquarters,
but to our spiritual temple.
Many would come,
according to prophecy,
and worship in that spiritual temple.
It is a figurative ‘house of prayer
for all the nations,’
according to Isaiah 56:7.
Revelation 7:9 prophesies
about ‘a great crowd out of all the nations.’
Now, what is their role and position?
Well, let’s look at it in the Bible
in Revelation chapter 7.
And in verse 9, it says:
“After this I saw, and look! a great crowd,
“which no man was able to number,
“out of all nations and tribes
and peoples and tongues,
“standing before the throne
and before the Lamb,
“dressed in white robes;
and there were palm branches
in their hands.”
It says that they
‘stand before the throne of God.’
Does this mean that they go to heaven?
No.
The earth is called God’s “footstool”
—Isaiah 66:1.
So even on earth,
the great crowd stands
before the throne of Jehovah.
The great crowd consists of Christians
with the hope to live forever
in Paradise on earth.
Revelation 7:15 says about them:
“They are rendering him
sacred service day and night.”
Where?
In front of the temple?
No, it says:
“In his temple.”
Where, exactly,
is the great crowd serving?
Yes, all of us,
no matter what hope we have,
serve Jehovah
in the spiritual temple
because we all worship Jehovah
based on Jesus’ sacrifice.
So, what is the spiritual temple?
True or false?
It’s the same as the spiritual paradise.
False.
Or it refers to anointed Christians.
False, again.
The temples in Bible times
constituted a provision
or arrangement for worshipping Jehovah.
So the spiritual temple
is also an arrangement of worship
based on Jesus’ perfect ransom sacrifice,
and all who worship Jehovah
based on his sacrifice
are in the spiritual temple.
Now, the spiritual paradise,
on the other hand,
refers to a condition
that allows us to serve Jehovah
with his approval
and in peace with our brothers.
We can enhance the beauty
of the spiritual paradise
and extend its borders
by making disciples
and also by displaying
the Christian personality.
All in the spiritual paradise
sing Jehovah’s praise without letup.
It is as if they preach day and night.
Isaiah 62:6 goes on to say:
“Continuously,
all day long and all night long,
“they should not be silent.
You who make mention of Jehovah,
do not rest.”
Yes, we are determined not to be silent,
not to rest mentioning Jehovah.
At chapter 60, verse 6,
in Isaiah, we read:
“They will proclaim the praises of Jehovah.”
By preaching the good news
and by our expressions in Kingdom Halls,
we all contribute to Jehovah’s praise.
Praising Jehovah is one
of the primary objectives
of our meeting attendance
and our preaching activity.
We understand that we
do not primarily preach
to save people’s lives.
Jehovah’s praise is more important
than the salvation of people.
Why?
Because Jehovah
is more important than people.
At Hebrews 13:15, it says:
“Through him [Christ]
let us always offer to God
“a sacrifice of praise,
“that is, the fruit of our lips
that make public declaration to his name.”
Nobody can stop the expansion.
Even dictatorial governments,
including communist governments,
could not stop
the expansion of God’s organization.
Hitler could not; Stalin could not;
Trujillo in the Dominican Republic could not;
Mussolini in Italy could not;
Ceausescu of Romania could not;
Mao Tse-tung could not;
Enver Hoxha,
dictator of communist Albania, could not.
Nobody can because Jehovah is with us.
What about the former Soviet Union
that included Ukraine,
Moldova, Belarus, and Russia?
In 1991,
there were less than 50,000 publishers
in the former Soviet Union.
Now they are approaching 400,000 publishers.
Imagine that increase, or expansion.
Within the period from 1991 to 1998,
a total of 220,492 were baptized
in the former Soviet Union.
In 1990,
in Kiev, the capital of Ukraine,
there was just one congregation.
Now there are about 75.
And 1993 saw the largest baptism
of true Christians ever.
It happened also in Kiev, Ukraine,
at the convention
—7,402 were baptized.
Restrictions cannot stop the work.
Jehovah promised:
“I will oppose those who oppose you,
and I will save your own sons.”
—Isaiah 49:25.
Shortly before Armageddon,
prophecy shows
that we will be attacked
by a coalition of nations
or governments directed
by Satan and the demons.
We do not need to fear, though.
Jehovah will protect his people
during the great tribulation,
and it stands to reason
that he will also protect
the physical headquarters.
At Zechariah 2:8, he says:
“Whoever touches you
touches the pupil of my eye.”
Zechariah 2:5:
“‘And I will become to her,’
declares Jehovah,
“‘a wall of fire all around [in protection],
and I will become the glory in her midst.’”
Yes, our headquarters
bring glory to Jehovah.
These headquarters facilities
and related buildings
were built to glorify
and praise Jehovah.
Isaiah 43:21 says:
“The people whom I formed for myself
[What for?]
so that they might declare my praise.”
Isaiah 43:21
—good to remember that text.
It shows that the purpose
why Jehovah has formed us as his people
is to glorify and praise him.
And so, what is the purpose
of the Christian congregation in general?
Well, again, to bring praise to Jehovah.
What’s the purpose of Warwick headquarters?
To praise Jehovah.
Ephesians 1:12 encourages us
to “serve for the praise of his glory.”
May this new complex
and the other buildings
that we dedicate today
glorify and praise
our dear heavenly Father, Jehovah.
It is now appropriate
that we say a dedication prayer
to dedicate all the buildings
that have not been dedicated yet.
And Brother Leon Weaver,
who serves
on the Branch Committee in the United States,
will now represent us in prayer.
With this prayer and your consent,
I now declare all of our new buildings
as dedicated to Jehovah.
And we thank all of you
for your contributions in various ways
—manual labor,
financial contributions, and prayers.
Now, what is the opposite
of “the day of small beginnings”?
The day of a big finish?
Well, is the dedication of our headquarters
the big finish, or ending?
No ending is in sight.
It is all relative.
In the new world, we might even consider
the dedication of Warwick
as a small beginning
in comparison with the huge work
that will be accomplished
in Paradise to teach billions,
because billions will be resurrected.
Isaiah 11:9 says:
“The earth will certainly be filled
with the knowledge of Jehovah
as the waters cover the sea.”
Yes, we have a glorious God,
and Jehovah has a glorious name.
We have the glorious good news,
and we have a glorious hope for the future.
When Solomon inaugurated the temple,
the glory of Jehovah filled the house.
Today, the spiritual temple
in which millions of us find ourselves in
is also filled with Jehovah’s glory.
At Isaiah 26:12,
it says:
“O Jehovah, you will grant us peace,
“because everything we have done
you have accomplished for us.”
Yes, we want to give credit
and praise to Jehovah God.
Even opposers come to realize
that Jehovah’s blessing
was involved in the construction,
as was the case
in the days of Nehemiah.
Nehemiah 6:16 says:
“They realized [the opposers]
that it was with our God’s help
that this work had been done.”
And this is in line with 1 Peter 4:11:
“So that in all things
“God may be glorified
through Jesus Christ.
“The glory and the might
are his forever and ever.
Amen.”
Revelation 5:13 agrees with this, saying:
“To the One sitting on the throne
and to the Lamb
“be the blessing and the honor
and the glory and the might
forever and ever.”
Hallelujah!
Thank you very much, Brother Lösch,
for helping us to focus on the real meaning
of the dedication of these facilities.
The thousands that attended in person
or were tied in for that event
thoroughly enjoyed the dedication program.
And now millions more of you
have been able to enjoy the same experience.
I know, I know,
you can’t wait to see
the rest of the program.
So I’m happy to inform you
that the spiritual portion
of the annual meeting program
will be posted later this month
in two installments
in the Video On Demand section of our site.
Part 2 will be posted
on Monday, January 15.
Part 3 is to be posted
on Monday, January 29.
So by the end of the month,
you will have heard talks
from five members
of the Governing Body.
We are well-fed spiritually,
that is for sure.
Well, that’s all for now.
This program
is from the studio of JW Broadcasting
at the world headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses.